[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Hello, I'm Gay Hendricks.
I want to tell you the story
of how I lost 120 pounds
and have kept it off
for more than 40 years.
I want to tell you the
essential secrets that I believe
will assist you in finding an
agreeable weight and a body you
love.
I was fat pretty
much from the moment
I arrived on planet Earth.
I was one of those babies
that put on weight quickly.
And by the end of
my first year, I
was in the top 2%
of baby weights.
In other words, if you
had 100 babies lined
I was fatter than 97 of them.
As I proceeded
through my childhood,
I continued to be overweight.
To make matters worse, everybody
else in my family was skinny.
I continued to
struggle with my weight
throughout high
school and college.
Sometimes, I would go on a
diet and lose some weight,
but I always gained it back,
and usually put on a few more
pounds than when I started.
By the time I was
24 years old, I
weighed 320 pounds--
140 pounds more
than the healthy 180
pounds I weigh today.
Then, one day, not long
after my 24th birthday,
something happened that changed
the direction of my life
completely.
I was working at the
time as a teacher
and counselor at a school
for delinquent boys in New
Hampshire.
I also was in the third year
of a very troubled relationship
that I wanted to get out of.
However, part of my job required
living in an apartment attached
to one of the dormitories.
I was in charge 24/7, except
for one weekend a semester.
I couldn't go anywhere
without quitting my job,
and my then wife wasn't
willing to leave.
She didn't have any
place to go either.
I think we both felt trapped.
So one cold day in
January, I went out
for a walk on a country road
to clear my head after one
of our many arguments.
I wasn't paying
attention to my footsteps
and I stepped on that
place on the ice that
was covered over with snow.
My feet shot out from under
me, and I landed on my back
on the hard road.
I hit the back of my
head and saw stars,
even though it didn't
knock me out completely.
What it did was
knock me into myself.
As I lay there on
that frozen road,
I had a truly unique
experience, something
I'd never felt or even thought
of feeling before in my life.
For about two minutes, as I lay
on that deserted country road,
I had the experience
of seeing down
into all the levels of myself.
I could see that
the layer of fat
and the tense muscles
I carried were barriers
to keep me from feeling all
the emotions I harbored deep
inside me.
I could see that I carried
a great deal of old sadness
and anger in me as well as
fears that had sometimes popped
into my dreams as I slept.
I had never acknowledged or
confronted these feelings
in my waking life though,
and certainly, never
talked about them
with anyone else.
I realized that
I ate obsessively
to avoid feeling
all those emotions.
I think my unconscious
mind had it
wired up so that if I stayed
fat and worried about my weight
all the time, it would
keep me from having to deal
with the feelings inside.
The first secret I learned
that day is one that I want you
and every other person who
struggles with their weight
to hear.
At the very center of ourselves,
we are spiritual beings.
That space of pure
consciousness in us
makes us spiritual beings,
regardless of what religion
we are or whatever our
past programming has been.
Because we have been hiding
our spiritual essence
underneath our layers of extra
fat and unexplored emotions,
and because we want so much to
have our spiritual essence be
visible in the world, we become
obsessed with our weight.
The second secret is to
have a commitment that
is big enough to make
all the work worthwhile.
One thing I've learned in
40 years of helping people
with their weight is
that nothing ever happens
without a sincere commitment.
The third secret is that there
are specific and very simple
tools that will help
you not only losing
weight, but also enjoying
and learning along the way.
Many people associate
losing weight
with a lot of suffering
and denying yourself
of good things.
You never need to
suffer or deny yourself
anything with this approach.
The fourth secret
is so important
that I urge you to apply it not
only to your journey of weight
loss, but to every
aspect of your life.
It may sound strange
to talk about love,
but in a very special way,
love plays a huge role
in creating your healthy body.
The reason is this-- to
create your healthy body,
you must learn to love the
body you have, just as it is.
That's right.
The real magic of
effortless weight loss
is to learn to love those
things about yourself that you
find most unlovable.
I'll show you how to do that.
And once you learn it, you'll
have a life-changing skill
you can employ to
make positive shifts
in every area of your life.
Now, let's return to
the issue of commitment.
In this program, I'm
committed to helping
you end your weight
struggles and achieve
the healthy body you want.
I'd like you to make a
real working commitment
to creating your healthy body.
Please get out a piece of paper
and something to write with.
When you're ready, write down
the following commitment--
"I commit to discovering a
new and loving relationship
with my body."
That commitment
will open the door
to a wealth of life-changing
learning for you.
If all those things
sound like things
you'd like for yourselves, take
an important next step with me.
Learn to use your natural,
organic, body wisdom
to start creating
your ideal body.
Body intelligence
is your ability
to be more sensitive
to your body,
and to master the
natural, organic skills
your body provides for you.
The first element
of body intelligence
is to learn how to use your
natural gift of breathing.
In our next episode, I'm going
to teach you the "yes" breath.
[MUSIC PLAYING]